Okay, so let's see how to do that paper space stuff that we did in the last session, but
from scratch, like step by step.
And one very reasonable comment on the forum after yesterday's session was like, this all
seems kind of complicated, and it is.
And like definitely one option is like, don't worry about it for now.
But I would say like trying to get this working is a pretty good exercise actually.
So you know, it's totally up to you, but I think it's probably worth trying to get working
and ask lots of questions about anything that you're not sure if it doesn't make sense or
it doesn't work for you or whatever.
Okay, so if I say share screen, here we go, share portion of screen.
I've never tried this before, and I think it would happen.
Share.
Move that.
There.
This is cool.
Okay, do you see my browser window?
Yes.
All right.
Okay, I'm successfully sharing a portion of the screen.
Paper space.
So what I did this morning was I just went in and moved all of my paper space set up in
persistent storage out of the way so that when I create a notebook, it's going to be
totally empty.
So let's create a notebook.
How did you move it out of the way to everything?
The advanced options.
I know.
I mean, I just like I went into slash storage and moved the files, renamed them to give
them a light.bak extension or whatever.
So they wouldn't be run and moved everything into a different order.
That's all.
So I'm the setup that we would all see, right?
That's the idea.
Yeah, exactly.
It looked like you should all see.
So I'm going to delete the workspace URL.
So we have something totally empty, which I think's actually probably best.
Right.
And yeah, so follow along if you want.
And if anything doesn't work for you, let me know.
And then what I thought we would do is I like to learn as few things as possible because
I'm lazy.
And so the way to get away with being lazy and learning as few things as possible is
to learn things which are really versatile and powerful so that they can like do a lot
of things.
So in particular, I haven't really spent the time to learn bash scripting very well.
I know it a little bit because I have instead spent the time to learn to use Python as an
effective scripting language.
And I can also use Python for machine learning.
I can also use Python for creating web services.
I can also use Python for creating console applications.
I can use Python for creating continuous integration scripts, etc.
So that way I can be lazy and I like being lazy.
It's one of Larry Wall's three virtues of a great programmer is laziness along with impatience
and hubris.
And I would like to be a great programmer.
So I follow those principles.
So let's try to use Python to kind of automate the things we want to do.
So remember that we're going to avoid using the weird proprietary GUI because we're lazy.
We don't want to learn it and also because it's not that good.
So I'm just going to open up a second tab.
And so over here I'll click JupyterLab.
And so what we should find is that we're in a totally empty spot.
Here we go.
So this morning I did do some reading of documentation, which is also a great thing to do if you're
lazy because if you read documentation then you can find out straight away how things
work rather than spending ages trying to figure it out.
And so the documentation for paper space was actually very useful.
And it explained how their different folders work exactly.
So in the root directory, it's probably a bit bigger I think.
There we go.
Actually, I think if I go view presentation mode or something it makes it a bit bigger
anyway.
That didn't do anything at all.
Okay.
In the root directory there's a couple of particularly interesting folders.
Most of the folders you see here are the same that you would find in any Linux box.
But the notebooks and storage folders are interesting.
And one of the ways we know they're interesting is if I go df minus h, which you might remember
is disk free, it lists all the mounted disks in human form.
It's made it way too wide so we can't really read it.
Okay, I make it smaller just for the purpose of showing this.
So the slash notebooks is actually on a whole separate 500 gigabyte disk and slash storage
is on a whole separate 500 gigabyte disk.
So what paper space does is slash storage, anything I put in there is going to be seen
by every single notebook server I create.
And in fact, if you've got, I think if you've got that model, probably people in the organization,
they might see the same thing as well.
So that's going to be shared across, yeah, or any notebook server I create.
That's going to be handy because anything I want to use on every one of my servers, if
I put it in there, then I don't have, you know, I don't have to worry about recreating at each
time.
Something we didn't mention last time is slash notebooks is interesting.
That's also persistent storage, but it's persistent storage just for this one server.
So stuff that's in there, we will see every time we start up this server.
If we delete this server, it's gone.
I'll just be back it up.
So that's where we would put things that we don't want on every server, but just on this
one.
You pay for storage and you pay, I think it's like 30 cents a gigabyte or something like
that per month.
And they don't limit you, you know, except for the 500 gig limit.
So it's up to you to be careful of that.
You will find in your account, there's a section called billing that shows you how much storage
you're using.
So they will add up stuff in slash storage that just appears once.
And every single one of your notebook servers slash notebooks that will all be added together.
Okay.
So the first thing we did last time was we tried installing something extra from pip.
So one conversation that we had on the forum since then is like, are you sure that's not
going to mess me up because, you know, paper spaces installed stuff, I believe, using
Conda and pip and Conda are different things for installing Python libraries.
So you know, if that got to mess things up and the official answer is yes, it will don't
do it.
But the unofficial answer is, you know, we've got tens of thousands of people on our forums
and I've never heard of anybody in practice actually having any problem with using both
pip and Conda slash member.
So I'm just going to say don't worry about it.
As we said yesterday, I think the only place you really need to use Conda or member is
for stuff that uses the GPU and particularly for PyTorch or if heaven forbid you have
to use TensorFlow.
Yeah.
So I'm going to say don't worry about it.
And the reason we actually want to use pip in this particular case is we want to be able
to install the packages into our home directory into a different place.
I mean, the reason we want to use Mambore or Conda for stuff that requires the GPU is
that they have a way of installing the pandemic.
They have a way of installing the CUDA toolkit requirements.
So we don't have to install the CUDA SDK.
It's basically the reason.
And it's not just one less thing to install, but more importantly, it's one less thing
to maintain.
Like your CUDA version and your PyTorch version have to mesh correctly, otherwise it will
break.
And if you just use Conda, that happens automatically.
But if you use pip, then it's up to you to make sure you're installing the correct meshing
versions of each things.
It's also more challenging in something like paper space because installing things like
the CUDA SDK into your home directory is, I don't even know how you would do it without
using Conda, frankly.
Yep.
Does that answer your question, Rhett?
Yes, thank you very much.
Okay.
Great.
So somebody's got a loud plicky keyboard, they should probably meet themselves.
Yes.
Hi.
If the pip installation do something wrong, can I uninstall or get to a previous state?
Yeah.
I mean, kind of, you can always just type pip uninstall or just delete your member forge
directory and start again.
But people always, I mean, or you can just install a Conda package over the top of it.
It shouldn't really be an issue, generally speaking.
The issue tends to be more if you accidentally install something into your system Python.
Yeah.
But the idea is that you want to feel like you can blow away your member forge or mini
Conda or whatever directory anytime and recreate it.
Yeah.
Because you don't want to be in a situation where things work, but you don't know why
they work and you don't know if you can get them back to a working state.
Again, that's really unsustainable.
But yeah, the short answer is you can just type pip uninstall to remove a module.
Thank you.
What about when it says that some packages are going to be downgraded?
That's okay.
Yeah.
If it's going to downgrade packages, I mean, I'd kind of check how much it's been downgraded,
but sometimes it'll be like one or two, you know, 0.02, 0.02 difference in version or
something.
It's not going to matter.
I mean, if it's downloading it or downgrading it by a lot, that might mean that something
wrong is happening.
But yeah, that's not necessarily a problem.
Okay.
Okay, so, and I think like pip almost never downgrades things.
Conda does sometimes.
So let's try.
So the thing we learned yesterday is we can go pip install and if you want to upgrade
something, it's minus u.
And there was this one extra thing we typed, which was minus minus user.
And so, so the key thing that does is it puts it into our home directory.
And so in our home directory, the place it put it is the dot local folder.
So what the, so the thing we wanted to do was to make sure that the next time we start
up our computer, we want that, that dot local to be there.
So that means we have to move it to persistent storage.
So that's easy enough to do by using move.
So we can move it into our persistent storage.
And you know what I would be inclined to do actually is to create a folder in there just
for the stuff that we're, where you, the things in storage that we're using specifically for
like configuration like this.
So I was just about to delete this line when I realized I haven't taught you folks how
to delete lines yet.
So to delete the everything left of the cursor, it's control u.
And to delete everything right of the cursor, it's control K. So I hit control u.
And so let's create a directory for this.
So we'll go make a directory in slash storage, which we'll call like, I don't know, CFG for
our configuration stuff.
Okay.
And so then we'll make a sim link from, oh, so then we're going to move.
So we're going to move our dot local folder into there.
Now do you remember the way to say the last thing I typed on the last line is.
Is exclamation mark dollar.
So I can say move dot local to slash George slash config by doing move dot local and then
exclamation mark dollar.
And you can see it's filtered out here to show me.
So let's say.
Click shortcut.
And then so I want to sim link that back again into this directory.
So create a sim link from slash storage config dot local to here.
And here is the default.
Right.
So I don't have to say to hear.
And so you can see we've now got something called dot local.
And it's not a real normal folder, it's just a pointer to this other place, but it acts
like a normal folder.
As you can see.
And so that should mean that I can import fast core and get fast core.
That version should be one four three.
Control D twice text.
Okay.
Everybody happy with that so far?
Jimmy, I had a doubt.
So which part was the dot local actually there like in which folder was dot local is in my
home directory.
And so see how here I typed CD.
So CD takes you back to your home directory and you can tell where I am because it's the
bit before the pound sign and till it means in my home directory.
And basically everything it creates for like kind of your configuration will be somewhere
in your home directory.
Stop on that.
We're talking about a Jeremy.
I noticed that when doing CD backslash, what city space backslash?
Probably you mean CD space forward slash.
Forward slash.
Yeah, that one.
That went to a different place to the home where you've got CD space tilde.
Yeah, so CD space slash takes you to the root directory.
Okay.
So that's the top level where I'll CD enter or CD tilde same thing takes you to your home
directory.
So if I go to CD slash and I type print working directory, it says, Oh, you're in slash.
And if I just type CD and say print working directory, it says, Oh, you're in your home.
And since we're root, that's our home.
Normally the home directory is slash home slash username roots a special case.
That answer that question.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Just a quick question, Jeremy, like in terms of starting your, the instance that you just
started, is that without an image, right?
I used the fast AI image, but I used the trick that we learned yesterday, which is to go
to advanced and then delete the contents of the Git workspace.
Oh, okay.
So I clicked on create.
I clicked on fast AI.
Make sure you do choose the fast AI image because it's got all the stuff we need to make
this stuff work, but I then clicked advanced options and deleted that.
And the only impact of that is it just, it doesn't put the contents of this Git repo
into your notebooks directory.
That's the only thing that's okay.
So I could try all these things that you're doing right now without, because I do have
a notebook already created, but it's with the fast book.
Yeah.
So you could like just to let them, you know, just I'm start on IPINB or just ignore them
or yeah, absolutely.
Okay.
Thank you.
No worries.
Jeremy, one more question.
Anytime.
So now you've, you've the dot local that you've created.
Now let's say you, so it's on your storage.
So it's persistent.
Now you reboot the system and you don't download another, you pip install something else and
you move that new dot local that it's going to create.
Isn't that going to overwrite what's in your storage?
Yeah.
So we haven't got to that bit yet.
At this point, we've got something that's working just for this instance, but it's not
going to work for a future one.
So we need to, we need to, what we're going to do, Mark is we're going to create a little
Python script that, that is before it starts the server, the before it starts Jupiter in
the server, it's sim links, it creates this sim link.
And then in the future, if I type pip install minus minus user, it'll store it in dot local
slash blah, that's dot local will already be pointing at slash storage.
So it'll actually stick it in slash storage.
And that's, that's the secret trick.
I thought, okay, thank you.
Cool.
And Mark, I think you were the one who said on the forum about like, are we sure this
is a good idea?
Was that, was that you?
Yeah, that's me.
I don't want to, I don't want to make it all about me, but I've had so many, I've, I've
started making about you because like you, you're at my target demographic here is people
who aren't particularly confident at the show.
So it's not a denominator.
No, no, no, no, no, it's just, you're the one person who was brave enough to join in,
I think despite having less experience at the terminal.
So I actually want you to be particularly happy to interrupt anytime.
Something's not clear.
Yeah.
No, I've, I've started this course a few times and every time the problem is always the thing
that always makes me stop is this stuff.
Yeah.
And I end up like getting conflicts and I remember there was an old version of, I think
it was paper space.
I remember that you were recommending and it kept crashing and it kept losing work.
And so I guess I'm a little paranoid about creating things that are going to create problems.
Yeah.
So to be clear, Mike, I don't feel like we've had a great solution for running fast AI cheaply
and easily until now.
So the reason you've had problems before is that like there wasn't a great solution before.
So, so this is the first time I'm actually saying to you, I really do think this is going
to work.
So anytime something goes wrong, like feel free to like share your screen or anything
because that debugging process will also be useful.
So I'd say for now, you know, suspend disbelief, give it a go.
And you know, if it all falls apart, blame me and I will happily fix it.
And so it goes for anybody.
As long as you're roughly following along with these steps, if you do something totally
different, maybe I won't be so patient.
Okay.
So, so look at what we did here.
We did two things.
We first of all moved our dot local to slash storage and then we sim linked it back.
Now we're not going to have to do that move ever again, right?
That was just enough to kind of create a dot local slash slash storage slash config dot
local.
All we need to do next time we, next time we create an instance is to create the sim
link.
Like so.
So let's do it like, if it's something so simple, because I said, I'm going to show
you how I would do things, something so simple, I would actually create a bash script for this.
And this is where things are going to get particularly interesting.
Because, well, okay, I'm going to show you the proper way to do this and I'm also going
to show you the slightly improper way to do this.
I'm going to show you how to use BIM, which is actually a highly recommended editor that
works in your terminal.
But I'm also going to show you a trick for how you can use the Jupyter text editor.
So Jupyter has an in browser text editor, which currently we can't really use because
it's pointing at slash notebooks.
So how would we change stuff?
How would we edit stuff that's in slash storage?
But what we could do is if we see data slash notebooks, and then we create a sim link.
Just letting you know on my screen at least, your cursor is just cut off from the bottom
of the screen.
So I'd need to make the browser a little bit smaller.
Sounds like Jupyter is not quite showing this properly.
So you can see it now.
Cool.
Thank you.
So if I sim link slash storage into slash notebooks, then what should happen?
There we go.
Is it appears here?
Because this is showing me the contents of slash notebooks.
So that would be one simple way to create a script here would be I could click plus.
And I could click text file.
And we've got a text file.
And so now we could copy and paste our sim link.
So maybe copy, let's see, copy.
Oh, that's annoying.
That's very annoying.
Copy stuff from the terminal.
Oh, you're running Scoundrel.
I just did it with control C and control B.
Yeah.
Oh, it's because I'm on a Mac now I have to press command not control.
Ha ha ha.
Right.
Thank you.
Okay.
And you need to make sure you're in your home directory for this to work.
So CD.
Okay.
And to run this as a script, you have to tell it.
It's a script.
And the reason why it doesn't matter too much, but the official, the kind of correct way to
do that is to your first of all, say, hash bang.
That means the first line of a file in Linux and Mac tells it what program to run it with.
And we want to run it with bash.
And you're meant to do it like this for slightly obscure reasons.
So, slash user slash bin slash n bash that will run this script with bash.
Okay.
File save.
The slightly less correct way to do it is you could just say which bash to find out where
bash is and it's actually slash bin slash bash and you know, you can also type this.
That would also work.
So that says when to Linux or Mac when you run this file, run it using this program.
Sorry, run it using this program.
Okay.
So file save.
All right.
So let's rename that and so in.
Paper space, the special file called pre run dot sh is run when it starts a new instance.
Now you might remember that, you know, in fact, let's, let's, it's good to, before you
just go ahead and start an instance, let's try to like run it and see if it works.
So if I type dot slash pre run dot sh and press enter, it doesn't work.
And so the reason why it doesn't work, hopefully you're starting to remember now is that we
need, we need permissions to be set correctly.
And in particular, we're missing the X here, the execute permission.
And so in the past lessons I've shown you, you can type ch mod u plus X to add the execute
permission to a file.
Like so.
But I also actually kind of lied.
I don't normally use that way of setting permissions.
Normally I set all the permissions at once.
I would actually normally type this.
I would 755.3 run dot sh.
Let me explain why 755.
And the reason I did it the other way before is it required less explanation.
755 is not the number 755.
It's actually three separate numbers, the number seven, the number five and the number
five.
It says these are permissions for the user.
These are permissions for the group.
These are permissions for everybody.
And then the permissions.
I'll just imagine.
I'm going to take you to the chest.
So actually it's not quite 555.
But that's okay.
So basically for each one it's going to add up three numbers, a one, a two and a five,
a one if it's executable, a two if it's writable, and a four if it's readable.
So seven means readable and writable and executable for the user.
Four means readable for the group.
And then this four means readable for everybody.
So if I check this now, you can see it's got, okay, so this rwx is four plus two plus one
equals seven.
R dash dash, that's four plus zero plus zero.
R dash dash four plus zero plus zero.
So these permissions are seven four four.
So that's yeah, slightly weird.
If you've done stuff with bit flags in your programming before, it'll look pretty familiar.
If you haven't, it might look weird.
This kind of thing does come up quite a lot actually in programming as a pricing amount.
So it's probably worth getting familiar with the idea of bit flags.
So that now should be able to be runnable.
And it is now runnable.
And so it's good we ran it because it tells us that, oh, you can't create a symbolic link
because it already exists.
Now I'm not sure before Jupiter starts if this directory will be here or not.
So it would probably be a good idea to assume it does.
So to avoid that, we could first of all go remove recursively and forcefully.
The any dot local directory or file that exists.
And so if I now save that and try to run it again.
Okay, it's worked.
So that's good.
So we should now be able to create a new notebook.
And I will, I'm not really doing anything with the GPU at the moment.
So I'm not going to spend their money unnecessarily.
So let's just create.
Any tiny little instance here.
X base start.
There we go.
Okay, so that's going to go ahead and start.
So that's done that bit from scratch.
So let's now do our keys from scratch as well.
So and you know, I would probably not do that SSH key gen thing in real life.
So let's do it all the way.
I would do it.
So I would just say make dot SSH.
That's where our keys are going to go.
Okay.
And then upload my keys.
Oops.
Okay, there they are.
And so then that's cd to dot SSH and move.
I put them in storage.
ID RSA star.
Into here.
Oops.
Oh crap.
I just messed it up.
Now I'd have to upload them again.
Sorry.
Move them into here.
Okay, so there they are.
In fact, let's do LA because that tells us dot, which is the permissions on this directory.
Okay, so the dot SSH directory, nobody else should be able to access it.
So if I go CH mod 700, 700, that means four plus two plus one.
So all permissions for me, the user and no permissions for anybody else on the directory.
Okay, and then actually.
Well, and then for the ID RSA, it's just readable and writable say 600 for my private
key.
And then for the public key, it's readable and writable by me, but only readable by everybody
else.
So there we've got it.
Okay, so this is what 700 permissions look like.
This is what 600 permissions look like.
And this is what 644 permissions look like.
And after a while, actually, you start getting used to the idea of like, Oh, 644.
Anything that you can read and write and other people can read, you know, 700, any directory
that you can fully access 600 anything that only you can read and write.
They kind of become like standard little concepts in your head.
So at that point, we should be able to test this now.
By SSHing to the username, get at github.com.
And I've successfully authenticated.
Now if that doesn't work for you, it's almost always because of permissions, but you can
get a lot more information by running SSH verbosely by typing minus V. And it's quite
cute.
The more V's you type, the more verbose it is.
So very, very, very verbose.
Okay.
And it'll tell you all the stuff it's doing.
And so now we've done that.
Maybe it won't be too surprised to hear that we want to do exactly the same thing with
our dot SSH folder, which is we want to move it into our persistent storage and then link
it back again.
So move dot SSH into slash storage config.
And then sim link it back again.
Now rather than manually doing that, we could just go into our script and copy and paste
these two lines.
Okay.
And do it for our SSH folder as well.
So save that.
And so if I run that script now, you can see my SSH is now sim linked.
And if I test it, so I pressed control our git gets me back the last thing I tied with
git in it.
Yep, it still works.
Okay.
And this notebook is hopefully finished starting.
Yes, it has.
And I'm just going to quickly use the paper space ID, just because I'm testing and we
can test.
Yep.
So this is a brand new instance I started in another tab and my dot local has successfully
appeared there.
So we can see that our pre launch thing is working.
Okay.
I think that's everything that I wanted to show today.
Does anybody have any questions before I go?
Sorry about the slow start.
One quick question, Jeremy, you can see a file structure there on the left hand side.
I see just nothing.
Yeah, so this is my old.
Yeah, so my persistent storage already had stuff in it.
So I've just been deleting stuff.
And the reason we see storage is because of that sim link I created earlier.
So if I type history, correct.
When you start the instance, when you're on the left hand top, you will be looking at
your notebook directory.
Exactly.
That is your notebooks directory.
And so you might have missed it, but earlier on what I did was I sim linked my slash storage
directory into my notebooks directory so that I could edit.
And so if you missed that bit, just watch the video and you'll see it happen.
But yeah, it was this is this line here, ln minus s slash storage and I put it into notebooks.
Great.
I was otherwise going to have to show you how to use VM, but I'm not sure how to use them
next time, but this way we can use our editor.
Great.
And the thing that makes it work across new servers is that the pre run file is in the
storage.
The pre run file is special.
So you might have noticed that when you go to the advanced options, when you start the
instance, it says what program should it run when it starts and it's a default.
It runs a program called run.sh.
And if you look at that run.sh, it says here, run the pre run.sh.
So it has to be that exact place and that exact name.
It's a special file.
This is a paper space specific thing.
Okay.
So as long as pre run is in storage with that exact format, it will be across servers.
Exactly right.
So it's just servers because it's in slash storage and it will be run because the run.sh
file runs it as, you know, yeah, exactly.
So Jeremy, just a quick question about pre run.
Did you created that, right?
I created the pre run.sh file.
It was not there.
So in bash this if here actually says if minus F is this file exists, then run it.
That's what that bash means.
And so paper space at, you know, I said to paper space, could you please add that to
our, to our image?
And so everybody who uses the, the, the fast AI image will, will have this.
And so if you create a pre run.sh in here, then it's going to run it.
Right.
So we would be creating that.
It will be pre correct.
The way I created it.
And again, go back and watch the video.
If you, if you missed this and you want to see it again, I double clicked on storage.
And then I clicked on plus and I clicked on text file.
And then that created a text file called on title.text, which I then right clicked on.
And I said rename and I renamed it to pre run.sh.
Right.
There was one before, like I saw the dot back.
So I just got back one.
Yeah, don't worry.
That's, that's the one I moved out of the way.
That's my actual one that I want to.
As I found out already and I was like, okay, did it, did the system created for you?
Yeah.
That was just trying to get mine out of the way so it didn't make me cheap.
All right.
So then the last step, of course, we have to do is to stop our server.
There'll be one quick question.
Yeah.
How do we ensure that we are not disturbing system by time?
Sometimes I have and I'm installing in my system.
I somehow I mess up things.
Have you watched the previous three three walkthroughs?
Last one, I missed.
Okay.
So watch that where we basically answer that question, I believe.
But if you have any, if that doesn't answer your question, then please ask next time.
Thank you.
No worries.
All right.
Thanks all.
Bye.
All right.
Thanks.